hi welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more and we talk about
everything that's b2b marketing related
and the various touch on various
different topics today i want to talk
about copywriting and the content
marketing so if you are interested in
this topic i have a very very awesome
guest to share with you but if you also
like the episode subscribe and comment
below i answer every single questions
you have so i really really appreciate
that you can subscribe and a comment
below so let's get started we have a
very special guest today brian collins
he was a full-time copywriter at sage
and i interviewed aegis director of
account marketing melissa a couple weeks
ago and now he's a non-fiction writer
from ireland i'm gonna have him talk to
you about what he's doing right now so
welcome brian it's great to be here pam
thanks for having me on your show so
talk to us what you are doing right now
you say you are the non-fiction writer
talk to us about what that is and what
you do ever since i was like 9 or 10 i
wanted to earn a living from writing
because i read this story the bfg by
roald dahl
oh wow
when i became 18 yeah i said to myself i
need to become a journalist because
that's the best way to earn a living as
a writer and i studied for a journalism
degree in dublin but i spent more time
going to parties than actually
learning how to get a job
i would do exactly the same if i live in
dublin yeah well yeah well it was great
fun at the time but then when i
graduated to my great surprise but no
one else is i found it really hard to
get work and i was unemployed on and off
for a couple of years and i nearly gave
up on only living
from writing and that's how i kind of
indirectly discovered copywriting and
content marketing and i was kind of able
to suppose reboot my writing career and
start earning a living from the written
word so i got a job
as a copywriter for a few publications
in ireland and then i joined sage the
the british software company to sell
accounting software and software for
small businesses about eight or nine
years ago i had a great career on sage
but i had set up a website or blog on
the site
called become a writer today and i was
publishing informational articles about
the craft of writing and over the course
of a few years what started out as a
hobby turned into a side and then a
full-time business um i guess i learned
a few things about content marketing and
sage as well so so that's what i'm
working on at the moment i finished up
in sage about a
uh nearly a year ago um great company to
work for but i kind of wanted i was 40
three or four weeks ago you want to make
a change
yeah
yeah with that being said there are a
couple things and you touch on a couple
topics i really want to talk about one
is copywriting and writing itself and
also the content marketing
copywriting is hard i'm not going to
pretend i'm a great copywriter but do
you have any specific tips and tricks
especially for small businesses they can
afford to actually hire a professional
copywriter and sometimes they have to do
stuff on their own or their marketing
team need to actually write do you have
any specific tips and trick that you can
share with everybody in terms of how
or try and strive to be a better
copywriter if they cannot afford to hire
someone yeah i think there's two parts
to your question one is
copywriting doing it yourself if you're
a small business you have no budget and
the other is hiring a copywriter if you
have a budget so
copywriting is hard if you want to learn
the basics unfortunately there are very
few copywriting courses you can take
there is an online course from the
american writers and artists institute
it's something you call like the six
figure course and copywriting it only
costs 500 but it's excellent it really
goes through the ins and outs of
copywriting and it's where you can learn
the basics but copywriting basically
means speaking in the language of your
customers using words that they use and
at some point whatever copy you write
should have a call to action where you
ask for a sale you ask for a
subscription or you present an offer it
is a specific discipline so you you know
something you do need to practice that
and you need to measure real world and
analytics about how your actual web copy
is performing
but if you have budget you can invest in
hiring a copywriter and if you're going
to hire a copywriter you should ideally
look for somebody who has some
experience copywriting so they have a
portfolio that they can point to and you
should also look for somebody who
specializes in your particular niche or
niche as they say in the united states
or industry so an ecommerce copywriter
isn't very different to somebody who'll
write a long-form sales page and that
type of copywriter is different to
somebody who'll write an email funnel
and secondly i worked in the b2b
industry as a copywriter so i can write
about accounting software and sas
products but if somebody asked me to
write copy about health products i would
be a little bit stumped so you need to
figure out what clients has your
copywriter worked with what's their
experience because that would help them
understand your products and services
better which in turn will help them sell
your products and services do you
actually have any suggestion in terms of
which website that the small business
owners or even anybody is looking for
good copywriters should go to
finding a copywriter can be difficult
you may need to go through a traditional
recruitment process and often
copywriters will have different job
titles so they may be called a content
marketer and copywriting might have been
something they did for the company so
you need to look at somebody's
employment experience on linkedin
that said if you wanted to find a
freelance copywriter i would start with
looking on jobs boards on the likes of
the american writers and artists
institute you will find us copywriters
for hire there
there's also a great service called
writer access
you can find freelance writers on writer
access but i understand they will also
provide copywriters who can specialize
in specific topics so i would try those
three services now you can use upwork
but you're going to have to go through
video interviews and you're going to
have to vet the copywriter because
anybody can set up an account nope work
call themselves a copywriter doesn't
mean they are
understood
this is great so another thing i would
like to ask you and this is one of my
personal experience writing for myself i
started with the blog writing and then i
eventually venture out to create videos
and i also do a podcast which is what we
are doing right now and i have come to
realize the writing
you know you mentioned about the writing
for different industries and the
different verticals tend to be a little
bit different because you need to
understand the audience
in order to write something that will
resonate with them but i have come to
realize that different formats also
matter for example writing for the
podcast or even writing for the videos
are actually very different do you have
any thought on that
i was only talking to somebody today
about turning content from a podcast
into an article and what a podcaster
might do is or at least the new one
take the transcript and paste it as an
article and wait for traffic to arrive i
don't agree with that approach at all
no i learned that the hardware it
doesn't work
what a copywriter will do is something
that a content marketer would also do
they will figure out the topic in
advance and then they will do the
interview like where like you and i are
chatting now but then later on if they
have time and budget and inclination
they will figure out a topic for the
article figure out the searcher intent
perhaps using some keyword research
tools and then they will write an
article but they will take extracts from
the interview almost like a journalist
and then they will insert quotes to lend
credibility to the piece content
repurposing is fantastic i'm all for it
if you can create content on a budget do
it but you still need to consider your
audience and who you're writing for
because somebody who's reading an email
is expecting different types of content
from somebody who is uh reading a book
to somebody who's listening to a podcast
so you do need to consider all of those
different formats and it's hard to do
them all well so pick one or two that
align with you and your business goals
i 100 agree with you i think it's
actually hard
to kind of take the podcast content and
try to fit into a blog post and the way
that i usually do it is there is nugget
there are some nuggets from the podcast
or some key takeaway and i will use that
but i'm not using the transcript 100
in a way you're still writing kind of
like a brand new blog post if you are
really thinking with your audience in
mind and i 100 agree with you
repurposing content also takes time and
effort and also budget to actually do it
right focus on one or two channels that
you do well and then just you know stay
in your lane right there's another thing
that you mentioned in terms of
translating or converting like the
episode of a podcast into a blog post
and you need to do some keyword search
and you need to actually do a little bit
of uh seo so what is your take in terms
of what are uh in terms of seo and
that's one thing and second thing is
what are some of the prep work that
needs to be done before someone start
writing say a blog post
marine copywriting with seo is a match
made in heaven because you can see
exactly what people are searching for
and the real words they use and put that
into your copy which every copywriter
should do so i use a couple of different
tools that help me with this uh the
keyword tool i go to the most is ahrefs
i use that too yeah it's fun it's
fantastic and you can also analyze sites
by competitors and see what they're
ranking for and reverse engineering
their content so that's helpful um
semrush is another alternative but i
prefer i hate hrefs so what i'll do is
i'll prepare a list of uh keywords for
whatever the project is or whatever site
i'm working on figure out what topic i'm
trying to address and then map out all
of the pieces of content
that should address the particular topic
so for example if i was um
publishing an article about
self-publishing a book i would have
articles about the cost of
self-publishing articles about where to
find an editor where to find a book
cover designer how much you should
expect to pay for self-publishing and
then you'll have a content plan with 10
or 15 articles uh that you're going to
go ahead and either write yourself if
you've no budget or that you couldn't
commission freelance writers for now if
it's a piece of content that i think is
going to be really valuable so i'm going
to earn an income from sales or
affiliate marketing so that's how i earn
money for the business what i would do
is use a content optimization tool just
to make sure that i've really aligned
with searcher intent by searcher intent
i mean what people are looking for and
not what i think they are looking for so
i'll use clearscope clearscope is my
favorite content optimization tool at
the moment is that view expensive
clearscope i think it's 99 a month and
for that you can analyze 50 pieces of
content but i like it because you can
create content briefs that you can send
to other writers but you could also
optimize your existing content
and you can also use it for competitor
research so it pairs nicely for me at
least when i hrefs don't need to use it
for everything but if you have something
that's really valuable for your blog or
for your business's site it will help
you maybe take a few extra boxes and
potentially figure out
what you need to do to rank for that
topic these are the two tools that you
are using
the the rf and the ohrev and the other
one is a clear scope those are the two i
use um you can you can accomplish this
with other tools i also use a
spreadsheet to keep track of it all
totally everybody use excel file i mean
i have a master content list like track
like the number of the videos i create
the number of podcast episodes i create
and also number of blogs i write guess
what they are all in excel file
yeah yeah everything is a in google
sheets for me because the business i run
is based on publishing content um and
then i monetize it to display
advertising i know if i see that there's
a potential to rank for a topic i will
go ahead and write and commission the
article i don't expect them all to
succeed or rank but what i find is that
sometimes you can over procrastinate
about a piece of content and going ahead
and creating it will tell you does
google see you as an authority in this
topic um or is this something that you
should move on from
yeah
completely understand speaking of the
tools
so you talk about clearscope you talk
about ahrefs
there are many ai based writing
platforms out there such as julieai.com
writer.com and
many more
have you tried any kind of ai based tool
kind of like you breathe the ai and they
will start writing on your behalf kind
of like the first draft do you have any
of that experience can you share that
with us
yeah i've tested quite a few of them
extensively mostly because i'm a writing
nerd and i love software uh so there's
work there's loads there's word tune
right sonic jarvis
ai which is great for copywriters and a
few others and chances are your viewers
or listeners have used them because when
you're in gmail
and it does that weird thing where it
auto-completes your sentence that is ai
in action i 100 agree with you you hit
the door yay yes or even actually doing
a google search and you type something
and google attempted to complete your uh
sentences or phrase
and that's also ai work yes i agree with
you but i think what you're asking me a
moment ago was can you get an entire
article from ai content and also what
you thought what's your opinion about
that
so my opinion is it's not quite ready
for
prime time so if you're a content writer
and you're already good but you don't
need to worry about being replaced by
robots just yet
that i 100
it could be different but we're not
right now now what these tools are good
for is
writing meta descriptions
writing headlines and potentially just
getting the introduction quite right
that you have your keyword in the
introduction if you're stumped with any
of those things these ai tools will spit
out potential introductions and a
potential headline that you can then
tweak so they're kind of a writing aid
or writing prompt rather than a
replacement for writing i 100 agree with
you on that yeah commissioning a writer
for three or four cents on a budget
service like text broker it's probably
comparable to what you would get if you
pay three or four cents per word i speak
about artificial intelligence as one of
the latino topics and in front of the
the marketing uh the b2b marketers or
other marketing conferences
and my sentiment is very much similar to
yours that the ai is not ready for the
prime time and what ai can do is help
you kind of to get um like you said the
keywords right or start with the opening
or create a rough draft but ultimately
the copywriter still needs to take over
and edit and after all ai does not
understand your audience and you are the
one understanding your audience and also
what's your writing objective and you
need to actually take what they wrote
kind of like a first draft and you take
it and edit and optimize from there yeah
it's good point about the writing
objective so even if ai could produce a
great article for you it's not going to
tell you where it fits in the customer
journey and all the supplementary
content the call to actions so yeah
that's what's good that's where
hopefully uh you fit in or i fit in
that's a value-add right exactly what we
provide to our customers
another question i have is obviously
everybody's creating content and uh
there's so much content out there do you
actually have any suggestion in terms of
how to create a content that will uh
stands out or breakthrough with the
clutter
oh i love that question when people ask
that question it's kind of like am i too
late have i have i missed the post
yes am i too late
no no you're not i would say to somebody
listening to this no you're not too late
i was only talking to a writer on medium
this afternoon so medium is a platform
for a writer it's a good network for for
writers but but he started on medium
about 20 months ago and he's already got
60 000 followers and a couple of million
views on his articles and he's built a
consulting business on the back of leeds
from medium and he only started in early
2020. so no you're not too late there's
there's more and more search terms being
discovered every day more people coming
online every day and using the internet
in new ways uh so certainly not too late
to create content but what you do need
to do is get specific so you can't just
create a blog like a youtuber and just
talk about your day
it should be about something that's
relevant to your audience and that's
relevant to something that you actually
know a little bit about rather than a
generalist site which might have worked
10 years 20 years ago but it's not going
to work today that i 100 agree with you
when i started writing i tend to write
just because i wanted to write and that
was back in 2011.
what i have come to realize after a year
of doing that is i need to be incredibly
focused
mime is really about marketing so at a
time i was trying to tap into a
different marketing topics and
ultimately my focus becomes 100 b2b
marketing or anything that's b2b
marketing related or sales enablement
and i even narrowed that down
to pretty much just a sales and
marketing alignment and also content
marketing along with account based
marketing and just be very specific
about that but i hear you that just look
at my own journey in terms of trying to
be very generic or general and i narrow
it down over a period of time so i hear
you loud and clear that was actually my
journey
sometimes by creating content if you're
regularly you will naturally learn
what types of topics you're comfortable
speaking about and which align with your
business too another thing i kind of
want to share with the audience is yeah
i'm a consultant myself and there's
always like the different schools in
terms of what channel you should try i
know that there are many people that
they only focus on one or two channels
they focus it very very well
like one of the writers that really
really just started in the medium and
then focus on that channel and try to
build a consulting business for that
specific channel i agree with that
approach but there's another approach
and try to be like trying multiple
different channels
and then be presents on multiple
channels and i don't think there's a
right or wrong way of doing that for me
i try to be on a multiple channel and
try to test on different formats of
content that has a lot to do with i need
to understand multiple different content
and multiple different channels so i can
provide feedback or the consulting
advice to my clients
do you have any you know suggestion in
terms of like for writers should they
just focus on one channel and do very
well in that channel or be present or
have that only presence on multiple
channels i would say pick one or two
channels that align with your
content format that you're comfortable
with and then align with wherever your
audience or your potential customers are
and while you're building an audience on
that channel so it could be medium could
be youtube it could be linkedin if
you're b2b yeah yeah but whatever
whatever it is uh remember that you
don't own your relationship with your
audience there the platform can change
the algorithm like facebook did with
advertising a few years ago and suddenly
you could have to pay to reach your
audience or you could be kicked off or
just uh your views could drop which
happens to lots of writers so always
direct people back to your home base
which is your website and your email
list
yeah give something away for free get
them on your email list and then you can
build up a relationship that you that
you can nurture over time
brian you hit the core 100 hit the court
i do agree that you need to have a
presence on one or two channels but uh
after all that channel does not belong
to you your website is your platform and
you own it and that you actually can
control your messaging you can control
what you want to say and build your
audience on your own turf is super
critical i 100 agree with with you on
that one building your
following on third party platform just
like you said they can change algorithm
or they can kick you out and all of a
sudden you kind of you have no leverage
whatsoever i love that comment thank you
for bringing that up
we talked about seo and the content
marketing a little bit earlier do you
think the digital marketer or even the
writers needs to be an excel expert
first in order to write
and do you have any tips and thoughts on
that there are many aspects to seo
there's on-page seo where you're looking
at the headline and the sub-headline
and the words on the actual page but
then there's technical seo which i don't
spend as much time on and then there's
off-page seo which i don't really do
either so i mean if you're actually in
the act of creating content it's good to
know the basics you don't need to become
a renowned expert but if you understand
keyword research and if you understand
how keyword research is different to
search your intent and if you understand
how to build topical authority that's
usually enough to set you apart from
most people who are creating content in
a similar niche and if you're a
copywriter i mean back to what i was
saying earlier on you
your copywriter's goal is always to
speak in their words that their
customers use and seo is a free way of
doing that so why not take advantage
that said don't go down the weeds
sometimes you just need to get on the
phone or zoom call and speak to your
prospects i think you hit the core what
you are trying to say is understand what
seo can do for you understand the
customer's intent understand how people
search there's a technical side of seo
that if you are not doing seo
optimization then you don't have to
worry about it but understand what seo
can do and can help you to actually
optimize your content or the quality of
the content you are writing
the other takeaway i would say is that
seo tends to be a longer term play so
you can take many months before you gain
traction on a series of articles
which can be difficult if you're in a
business environment because you might
have to report on something every
quarter or every six months so sometimes
you have to sell the fact that look what
we're doing now might not see results
till six months down the road that long
play it's like you try to get instant
result versus a loan play yeah you need
to try to find that balance my last
question is
what are some of the kpis to measure the
success of a copywriter oh great
question uh when i was in sage we used
to have a lot of kpis and at the start
of my career there i used to rail
against kpis because it felt like they
were a constraint on creativity now i
actually like kpis because i think they
can help
anybody run an online business built
around content so i like to set a lead
measure and a lag measure you're talking
about lee measure and what's the second
one a lagmaser lag
oig lag measure okay talk to me a little
bit about that go ahead firstly there's
a great book that explains the concept
in detail if we run out of time it's
called the four disciplines of execution
by franklin covey that book is so hard
to read it's so dry skip to the lead and
lag measurement oh my god this is so dry
i cannot do this i actually have that
book
yeah it's just there's one section in
the book that made an impact on me so a
lead measure led is something that you
can influence or control directly like
for example the number of articles
published this month whereas a lag
measure is something that you can't
control but which typically causes
anxieties my traffic or my sales or
downloads so somebody will say traffic
is down what do we need to do and then
everybody panics but what you actually
need to do is look at the lead measure
and ask yourself how can we turn the
lever so that we can publish more
optimized content and then later on that
should result in an increase in the lag
measure so if you get the two right if
you set yourself an ideal lead measure
for a project that's something you can
influence and an ideal lag measure
that's something that serves as a
temperature check
then you should have a system that can
help you build the type of content
flywheel
so if i wanted to get more email
subscribers i could potentially do more
outreach or i could set up a paid
advertising campaign or some other
tactic but if i just looked at my email
subscribers and said it's dropping off
and then i panicked that's not really
helpful so it's better to look at
something that i can influence the
following week
this is excellent and thank you for
sharing a lot of insights not just on
the writing but you are looking at the
writing in a very holistic way you know
how seo play into it how technology play
into it and what you can do actually to
optimize we touch on many many different
tips and tricks that you are sharing
with us love it love it to wrap this up
i actually have one question i would
like to ask you
so what is the show that you are being
watching right now and will you
recommend it
the show that i'm binge watching right
now is succession which i think a lot of
people have been watching i am watching
that too you know i hate telling you i
hate every single character they're all
out they're all terrible people that's
why i like it
but i'm watching them i'm watching them
but i do not like any one of those
characters the writing is fantastic and
the dialogue is excellent yeah it's very
short snappy sure snappy sure snappy you
actually have to listen and try to
understand what they are trying to tell
you the writing itself it doesn't convey
directly how they feel and it's that
underlying message that you have to
think about that's what i like about the
writing succession they've invested a
lot of money in
the actual visual appeal of the show
the whole production was flawless
excellent so that's a great suggestion i
love it anyhow the lasting or last
minute thoughts you want to share with
us like if there's one thing for
copywriting or even content marketing
that a person needs to do or must do
what would that be if you're not using
content to
promote your business your brand or your
company it's a fun tapped opportunity it
may seem like everyone's doing it but
trust me they're not oh by the way
before we go if your listeners are
interested in getting some advice about
the craft of writing please visit become
a writer today.com and i'll send you a
free book of writing prompts and if
you're interested in a podcast where i
deconstruct their writing processes many
different types of writers i can search
for become a writer today on itunes and
the show comes straight up brian thank
you so much for coming to my show again
if you like the episode please subscribe
and comment below love love love to hear
from you
so that's it thanks a lot ryan thanks
pam take care
bye-bye
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]
you